Source: public GitHub discussion, immich-app/immich #7362 "Library sharing and people matching" (Q&A, 34 participants, Feb 2024 to 2026). Real user comments, quoted verbatim; speaker labels are GitHub usernames. Selected for length; the full thread is at https://github.com/immich-app/immich/discussions/7362

andymarden (original poster): My setup is this: I have a "family" user which owns an external library which is where all of our family's historical photos are. This is then shared with each family member as a user. It's great that now this can show up on maps but my question is on people face matching. Unless I am missing something, each user gets to identify people in their own libraries so, in this case, the "family" user can go through and do that. However, it seems this matching is not available to the users that the library is shared with. Of course, I would want all family members to be able to see this. SO making that available would be good - even better would be if you could say "this person in the shared library is the same as this person in my own library" and link the people. I could have every user create their own external library on the same folder but that is a HUGE increase in resources required and it means everyone doing all this stuff for themselves. This must generally be a very common way to want to use Immich - each user really would want to see their own + the shared libraries in one view.

andymarden: I can see that looking further, the shared libraries are very separate in the users display which is a real shame. Maybe I need to rethink this at this stage and have everyone log on as the same user since the primary purpose is around sharing family photos - the ability to upload and store your own photos is 2nd to this.

mikesellt: I'm moving from Synology to TrueNAS, and as a result am moving my photo library over to Immich. I have a lot of photos already, and I'd like to be able to add them as an external library, but give all of my users (my wife and kids) view access to that external library while still keeping their own individual libraries for cell phone backup. I don't see a way to do this currently without making individual external libraries for each user and adding the same photo folder in each of them - basically duplicating the external library for each user. If that library were duplicated, I don't think all of the face recognition would persist between each library. If we could just have one external library and have it shared between users, they could help match the faces and whatnot. Also, great project so far. I'm really liking Immich in general. Thanks.

andymarden: I hope that all users (or a single user with permissions) can not only view all things related to the library but also can contribute to reviewing and updating facial recognition, etc, such that everyone can see the same thing.

rytl4847: I also hope that this gets implemented in the future. I have the exact same use case as @andymarden. The option to include shared library resources in the map view was added last year after a similar request.

optoisolated: When you share a library with a partner you can share the location information, you should also be able to share the people as well. Even if its a selectable option. Our library is set up in a similar way with two individual users but we would like to see each others libraries and having to people-match on each library separately is laborious.

andymarden: Ultimately this is about the underlying data model. At the moment, library is something owned by user and tied to it. It would be better to think of them as separate entities with a many to many relationship between them. The link entity between them drives the users and the access they have to the libraries eg. view photos, view locations, view face recognition, etc and then edit for each of these things on a per library basis. There's a load of work to do that but it would be worth it in the long run.

Jacup: library could be owned by 1 person to manage that, but maybe add additional field with collection of users eligible to view contents? Maybe even a little permissions management with roles like viewer, view+modify etc.

Jacup: As a workaround, what about creating a user that will own an external library and share it to the other family members? This could help to not share all private photos between users, just the common (external) one, but does not resolve people match.

PrayerfulDrop: The lack of sharing my 120k+ assets with my family users automatically has caused me to halt using Immich. There is no easy way to create albums based on the assets and lack of global select all capabilities. I do not use folder structures in the external library since 2015 so the CLI tool is useless.

andymarden: It is a data modelling thing: a user exists; a library exists (this may be external or internal); a library has one user as the owner; each library has a number of actions that can be performed on it - add, delete, modify photos, link facial recognition, view map info, view facial recognition etc, view action permissions, modify action permissions, transfer ownership; any user can have permissions on each action on each library; the owner always has permissions for all actions on a library they own. Happy to help as I have about a million years experience doing this sort of stuff and the scars to show.

eddified: I cannot find a way to share the external library. @andymarden can you please explain how you did that?

kgerg2: Not OP, but I have a similar setup. There is a user for the sole purpose of being the owner of an external library, and it shares all its photos using the partner sharing feature, essentially sharing the external library. This seems to me the easiest way to do it.

davidancell: I use the same setup as @kgerg2 however, the people matching feature isn't available. It's very unfortunate. I'd LOVE for this to be implemented.

enlight3d: Migrating from synology photos to immich and have a shared library that is not tied to a user would be a very nice feature. I think that each user should have their own libraries and this can stay as it is right now, but the external libraries (such as a docker mount point from a shared volume /Photos folder of a NAS) could be made available to other users according to some permissions.

chriswhaas: I need one "shared Space" for all members and my private space next to each other. "Shared Space" is for family images, private for job documentation pictures, for example. The backup should always go into my private Space first. From there I decide, which images should go into the "shared space" for all.

chriswhaas: One more thing: I never liked the face recognition system in Synology photos, because they are separated between Shared space and private space, so I had to learn and name each person in both spaces again. It would be great, if each face recognition set would reflect in both worlds, including the name of the person. In my account I should see all Person A images from shared and my private space in one virtual folder of this person. My partner should see in her account all images from Person A in shared space and her private space. The naming of Person A should also be shared as soon as this Person A is available either in shared space or her private space for the first time.

66tree: I have scanned thousands of old pictures that I want to do this with as well. Right now they are in an external library that I wish I could share "view only" rights to every new user added to Immich.

nghiemlong: As a Photo vault for families, the fact that Immich does not allow Location & People sharing via partner link makes me confused. The map is basically useless for me because I need the whole family to see it, not only me. Sorry I found that a partner can see the photo map of shared albums. So the only feature I need now is People sharing.

alextran1502 (maintainer): Just an update from the team. As we are getting close to finishing all the work for Kysely migration, we are starting to discuss how to implement this feature request. The discussion is done internally.

srvprivate: As it being a Family User for others to upload and view to, tagging the people is important, but those people don't show on my OWN user as people. Which means I would need to upload my own library in order to tag them. This hybrid approach is very crucial, and something like "Tagged" should exist (like Facebook started in the early days and still has). A hyperlink to each person and allowing that data to be toggled on or off in sharing settings. We need more Share Permissions.

MilesTEG1: This is the thing for what I can't migrate to Immich. (Plus the fact that admin can't delete photos from another user...) Hope this will be added soon.

srvprivate: Revisiting this after testing with family accounts, the workflow is still pretty cumbersome in practice. Here's what feels missing from a family-use perspective. Ability to create a dedicated Shared Library that multiple accounts can upload to, instead of relying on one "owner" account. Clear UI section for Shared with simple toggles/permissions (view, contribute, comment, tag, etc.). Upload flow should let users choose "Personal" vs "Shared" library (or set a default). Face tagging and people mapping in a Shared Library should propagate to all accounts with access, instead of staying siloed to whoever did the upload. When creating new family accounts, it would be huge if they could inherit a default template with Partner/Sharing already enabled. One toggle like "Family Mode" that automatically applies shared access + default partner settings across all accounts. The core issue: not everyone in a family is tech-savvy. The workflow needs to be as "stupid simple" as possible: sign in, upload, pick where it goes. Done. Trying to figure out how to navigate with my family moving forward after a funeral and want to not give a bunch of changing directives if I made them separate accounts!

amacal1: This is the most succinct, yet complete, definition of the missing features. I care more about the "Unified Face / People Data" part of it. What I DO want is for either my wife or I to be able to search the massive external libraries that are shared between us. She has her photos, I have my photos, and lately even my daughter is using Immich on her devices. But we also have a decade of "family" photos that we would all like to have the ability to see (currently works), locate on a map (currently works), and find ourselves in them (currently does not work), or find our pets/bikes/clouds, etc. in them (currently does not work).

thiagomg: Me, my wife and my daughters each have our phones, from which I'd love to have the pictures taken going to each library, but always shared to each other. Secondly, both me and one of my daughters have digital cameras and the pictures taken from these cameras go to a separate location as I need to manually copy the photos. I'd love to see all my wife's pictures, for instance, when I select her face, regardless of the user owning that photo. I am a software developer myself and I could help building this feature.

sdf121234: I absolutely need face recognition for shared photos. I would already be satisfied if the faces had to be retrained and could not be reused from personal photos. For me personally, it would be important that other users have access to the face database of the shared photos. Unfortunately, until this is possible, immich is not usable for me yet.

Vinticb: I'd like to expand on this with a more detailed collaborative approach. Shared People (Family Library): admin-curated central database, shared people automatically appear in all authorized family members' accounts, read-only for regular users, names, birth dates, and profile pictures sync across all users. Private People (Individual Library): each user maintains their own private people database, visible only to the creating user, full editing control. Collaborative Suggestion System: any family member can propose moving their private people to the shared library; users can suggest better names, profile pictures, or metadata for existing shared people; all suggestions require administrator review and approval; admins get notified of pending suggestions, users get status updates. Clear visual indicators to distinguish between shared vs private people. Suggestion history - track what changes were proposed and by whom. Bulk operations - admins can process multiple suggestions efficiently.

TKaluza: Yes but "Admin reviews and approves better photo" - I trust my family, so just a history to take back the last changes would be great.

drewmerc302: I just spent 45 minutes trying to figure out why my wife couldn't see my external library on her user account even after I enabled partner sharing. I just stumbled across this thread. For me, Immich is essentially worthless without this feature and I certainly wouldn't have spent the better part of a week installing, configuring, and letting import jobs run on 200,000+ photos/videos if I had known the only person that could see them would be me. +1 on the ability to share an existing external library with family.

sneumann: Calm down please, you are talking to volunteers and not a company that sold you something. I have the same needs here, but I might have a solution: a script that searches for all assets that are external, creates an album named after the external library, and once your external library is in Albums, that can be shared. Execution was blazing fast for 16K images. Looking forward to seeing a solution to the people/face recognition sharing.

felixfuchs90: We use Immich on Unraid for our extended family. Multiple users upload photos of the same people (children, grandparents, family events). Shared face recognition and shared people management would be one of the most valuable features for us.

svaens: I was shocked and dismayed when my wife couldn't (even as 'partner' in the app) add photos I've imported to her 'favorites' list. OK, never mind. I have thought of a workaround. Simply create an album, and add them to that. Denied. She is able to add photos from the context of the album, but she can't add them when just browsing/filtering photos. Probably the feature of 'Partner' needs to be discarded, and replaced with a more universal permissions schema. A bit like the Linux/Unix file-system, with Users/Groups/Others, and a whole bunch of roles (instead of just read, write, execute).

ag3ntfury: In a self-hosted family setup, the server administrator should manage the infrastructure (users, backups, updates, storage), but should not automatically have access to every user's photos. By default, each user's library would remain private. If a user needs help, they could explicitly delegate access to the administrator (or another trusted user) with selectable permissions such as View, Edit, or Delete, and optionally set an expiration time. The user could revoke access at any time.
